Hi guys welcome back.
Like I promised I don't know two lectures ago.
We have five main things that we need to get done in this section.
We need to get you a user name a account name and profile photo a bio and a call to action.
Now first up your user name.
Now I've said this before and we'll continue to say this in the future.
Everything on Instagram is changeable.
You can change any of this anytime you want to.
You are not locked into your name your user name your photo really anything.
And that's why we just kind of screwed around in the last lecture and we just got used to the user flow
because nothing's permanent.
What's your user name again.
That's that thing that shows up at the top of your account.
It's what you're going to be known as it'll be the thing that people generally type in if they want
to find you directly.
And it's a thing that's going to show up every time you post or put a comment.
Now the rules of the game when it comes to picking an awesome user name depends on what type of account
you're creating.
If you're a business that has a brand and you're just making an account that's an extension of that
brand then we have a set of rules.
If you're promoting yourself or your personality then we have different rules.
And if you're doing something not directly related but you're still you know leveraging this to benefit
your business in some way.
Again different variation of the rules.
Now if you don't know which of these three you want to be a brand personality or again what I'd call
themed accounts don't really worry about it.
We're gonna talk about that first thing in the content strategy section and the next section.
You don't have to commit anything at this point.
OK let's say you're a business or a brand and that's why you want to get an Instagram whether you should
even be in Instagram is not for me to judge.
In this case you will want to get the name that's closest to your actual business name really simple.
You need consistency across social media accounts.
If I go to your Instagram page and can't tell this related to your Web site you did something wrong.
If every name is different.
While you won't be able to get a cross platform following Just because people won't be able to find
you and they'll just stop trying that is no bueno.
Right.
So first off try your company or brand name and if it's available then hooray you're done.
Make sure to use a lower case and upper case and the same exact way that you do it on your Web site
or wherever and you should be all good.
Now how do you check if it's available.
Well there's three different ways you can do this.
One is actually to go back to that very first screen when you're creating an Instagram page and then
just try typing it in and you'll either get an x or a checkmark depending on what it is.
You could also go to the dummy account that we created then go to your profile section and click Edit
edit profile.
Now now what you can do is just change your user name but you'll have to try to save it each time just
to see it.
So it's one extra step.
So what is best.
Well personally I just like going to a Web site called name checker.
It's name checker with Justin R. because you know misspelling things is cool
it will tell you if it's available and if it's available on other platforms as well and I'll do it all
instantaneously.
You know own the other ones please just do yourself a huge favor and buy them all now.
OK.
Now what happens if your brand name isn't available.
Someone took it.
Well that's super annoying but it could be because you have a common name.
Unfortunately if your name is social media marketing company then yeah someone probably has that name.
Also get a new name.
That's a terrible name.
It's kind of like if you're an alien or a you know insert a stoic and unemotional nationality here and
you wanted to figure out what human emotions were and what they do and say you decided to name your
account great product that you want to buy.
Your options are less optimal but still doable.
Now try a variation in this case.
Now my personal favorite is just to get the dot com version of your username.
So if you were awesome properties and that's obviously taken then you could be awesome properties dot
com.
Now why is that an awesome name.
Awesome because you get to plaster your toe main everywhere.
Anyone who sees your post or page will see your domain and in some cases they'll go to your Web site
for example.
Friend of mine runs forever jobless dot com.
OK.
He posts on instagram under 4 I've heard jobless dot com net means that he can put that link virtually
everywhere and yes it does actually give him a lot of traffic outside of that.
I'd prefer that you just add like insta or Instagram to your name because that would kind of make sense
immediately to a customer who recognizes you from somewhere else.
Same company but this is our Instagram account.
You also try things like adding your location instead of awesome properties you can be awesome.
Orlando properties or awesome properties Orlando.
You can also put your brand subtitle instead.
So let's say your theoretical or real estate subtitle is great properties on demand.
Now that could be effective as an actual user name.
You can also generally put your niche in as a differentiating factor.
So you sell clothing and your focus is like petite wearers.
Well then you could go with petite clothing or clothing for petite.
I think the plural for the deed is actually a tie but whatever.
OK.
So it's easy for you as a brand to get a name get your actual name.
If that doesn't work then just add the dot com extension.
That doesn't work or you just have a really crappy like dot net domain.
Then try adding Instagram or a location or even your niche.
If your business focuses on a subset of your market which intent you probably do.
Now lastly if your brand's subtitle or catchphrase makes sense then try using that doesn't always work.
Now between all of those options it's gonna cover like ninety nine point nine nine percent of business
accounts right now so what do you do if you're just a person and you want this to be your personal account.
Well similar rules try first to get your actual name which unless your name is like John Smith you probably
have a decent shot at getting it.
My name for instance is free but please don't buy my name.
I don't negotiate with terrorists.
Now if you can't get your personal human name then.
Well you know does your main Web site use your name if that's the case.
And you can try and at dot com variant that doesn't work then well you're just going to go down a slightly
different decision tree.
I don't generally like seeing names plus locations or names plus your niche.
Now why is that.
Because it's limiting and it makes the scope of your account seem small.
Now why would I follow Evan Kimbrough S.F. if I don't live in S.F. it just doesn't feel right in this
case.
What I prefer to do is use your first or last name plus an adjective.
So what's an adjective that describes you or more specifically your content.
Don't put evil Evan if you're an online course instructor obviously unless you hate me.
What are you selling specifically selling a lifestyle.
Use positive adjectives.
Awesome.
Great.
If you think you're a guru then use master expert.
Do you think you're good at saving people money then put money saver whatever.
Now protip the best accounts with this strategy are one or both of these a liberating and rhyming now
a liberating means you start each word with the same letter.
Sell cupcakes cute cupcakes fruity flower decadent delicious dessert or damn diabetes rhyming is you
know I'm.
You know rhyming is right and the resources will linked to things that you should know of.
One is a thesaurus and the other one is a rhyming dictionary incredibly helpful especially in English
as a second language.
Have fun with that.
Now if this doesn't work then just try your best to summarize yourself or what you want people to think
of you in the shortest possible title you can.
If you're a personal brand and what are you known for.
Mind be like I teach business or my jokes aren't funny.
Lastly if you're doing a themed account your options are wide open.
Personally I suggest picking a name that tells people what they'll get when they follow you.
I posed puppies every day for your business ideas millionaire motivator.
Same rules apply alliteration and rhyming are extra good.
They make it sound better and they're easier to remember.
People for example are 20 percent more likely to remember a name that illiterates vs. one that doesn't.
OK let's take a break and if we have our phones next to us let's try coming up with some names and see
what's out there when you get a list of possibles you think might work.
Then go the next lecture where we'll do one more quick check of do's and don'ts for your title.
That'll help you narrow down your list and the resources.
We have lists of more ways that you can add a variation to your name.
We've listed off some of our favorite names for real accounts.
There are some sites that literally list off 900 unique names that are available and we've linked you
to at two different paid services that will come up with a name for you.
If you've really really stuck spoiler ones called Crowd spring.
I once called squad help.
All right guys you know your homework is.
See you next lecture.